Congratulations. You're halfway there. So I had to break this course
into two courses, mostly because if I made this course like
14 or 15 weeks long, you'd drop out and then
you'd be all bummed. So we have this moment
in the middle where if you need to take
a break, you're fine. It's like in a video game where you're going through and then you pass a point and then when you
have a problem after that, you come back to that point. This is one of those points. So if you have problems
going forward, you don't have to come all
the way back and do this. What we've covered so far is
what we call control flow. It's like programs do this, then they do this, then
they have an if statement, and then they have a loop
and they go round and round, and then they do
this other thing and they read some stuff
and they do some stuff. The whole thing, that's a sequence, it's
steps, control-flow. What the program is
going to do next, and then what's it's
going to do next, and what's it's going to do next. So that's what we talked. We talked assignments,
we talked if statements and for statements
and those kinds of things. We've learned how Python navigates through
your program and finds its way through the various steps that
you've asked it to do. But that's only half a
programming. The next thing that
you're going to learn is about variables and how you can put four in a variable and you can add two to it and then
it becomes six. But there's much more
that variables can do and we call this data structures. That's what we
computer scientists call this as data structures. It turns out, in your program, it may not seem like it, but we can solve problems
in a way far more easily with
clever data structures than with clever control flow. Control flow is obvious and
data structures are subtle. So by making
clever data structures, your control flow is simplified.
If that makes any sense. Of course, you
haven't done it yet. So that's why data
structures is important. That's why you
shouldn't stop now, that's why you're
halfway through. But again, if you need to
take a little time off, you can take a break
but come back and finish the next class
data structures, because the two
pieces, algorithms, control flow and
data structures are the two pieces of programming that give you the whole picture. So hope to see you
in the next class.