[MUSIC] Okay, so, before we proclaim
a complete victory over our layout. Let's go ahead and
test this website on a real phone. So, I have here an iPhone 6 and
I'm going to load up the site on iPhone 6. And let's go ahead and click around and see if there's anything that we
notice that we might need to fix. Okay so here I am on my iPhone 6 and this is our
website the front page of our website. Let's go ahead and scroll around a little
bit to see what it looks like and it seems to look just fine to me. Let's go and click on the menu tile and
it should take us to the menu categories page and it does
that seems to work pretty nicely, also. Let's click on one of the menu categories. And that will take us to
the single category page, which shows us menu items one by one. And that seems to work pretty well,
as well. Let's now go ahead and tap the phone
number button, and see if it's going to try to make a phone call and sure it does,
it is trying to make a phone call. Let's cancel that, and let's go take
a look at the menu here on the top right. If I click here, and
then the menu shows up. So if I click on the menu,
it will go to the menu categories page. Lets go back to the single
category page and there it is. And lets go ahead and open up that menu. One thing that bothers me about it is
that there is no home navigational menu that I could click. It's only menu, about and awards. And even thought in the desktop version
we'd probably get away without it. And we don't want to crowd the desktop
version, but for this we would like to really have other options other then just
tapping on the David Chu's China Bistro the actual restaurant name in order
to get back to the home page. So we'd really like to have
the home page selected right here. There's another thing
that's a little bit weird. If I for example tap on lunch
menu try to select the lunch menu it really would be natural for me to
assume that my menu, my drop down menu, really should automatically just go
ahead and go away, but it doesn't. It only does it if I actually
tap on the menu button. Well, that is something we're not really
going to be able to address right now, because that's something that cannot
be addressed with HTML and css alone, it needs to be addressed with JavaScript
and we're going to learn JavaScript next. So until then we're going to
leave that alone, but putting the home button in our drop down menu,
that's something that we can do right now. So let's go back to the code editor and
add that in. Okay so here I'm back in sub line text and
I'm located in examples, lecture 39 after folder and
I'm looking at the index.html. Really all we need to do is
add another menu item, and that's actually fairly easy. We just have to find our list of menus. And there it is, our list of menus. Each menu is an Li, and so we'll just need
to make some space in the front here. Let me cut and
paste some code that I already wrote. So we want this menu item to only
be visible when the screen size is extra small. And in this case, wanted to be active
since we're sitting on the index page, that's the homepage, so
we want to mark it as being active. So, in the mobile view it will
actually put a line through it, like a grey background through it. And all it is just a link to index.html. And we're also using the glyph icon,
glyphicon-home. Basically it's going to have a little
like house, little button looking thing. And space home, just to give it some text. So go ahead, let's go ahead and
save that, and let's go back to our browser, and
click on that, and there it is. Now we have home here, if we go to menu,
and then we click again. And now it's menu so we really
didn't put that on the menu page, the menu categories page. So let's go ahead and fix that. Let's copy that right here. Let's open up our menu categories page and
again, scroll down to the Lis, right here. And we'll cut and past, right here. Except this time we want to
remove the active out of here. Because it's not active on
the menu category's page. And the single category page,
the same thing. We scroll down and find our LI list,
which is right about here. It's a little jumpy. Okay here we go. And we're going to cut and
paste, and again, we're going to remove the active here,
because on this page, it is not active. Okay let's go back to our browser. And let's click this button. And here we go. So now, if we're in menu, if we click home we get to be at home and
home will be selected. If we go to menu,
go to the single category page and select that we're still on the menu,
that's good. Click to home and
we get back to the home screen. Okay, so it seems like we've fixed our
minor issue, except for some things that we're going to need JavaScript for,
and we're ready to move on.