Alright, let's get you set up on the lab's platform and I regret using it as part of this course and that's the quick clams. Now, let's go through how you're actually going to access each of these labs and perform a lot of the work that we're going to ask you during this specialization. Now, as you work your ways through these lessons in Coursera, you're going to start to see labs at the end. Each lab is clearly going to say, lab and then the title of the lab. In this case, we're looking at the very first lab which is getting you started with Quick Labs which is lab zero. It's what you are going to do inside of Coursera is go ahead and click on that lab title, and inside of Coursera on the lower right hand corner, you are going to see a button that says 'Open tool' that will actually launch quick labs in another tab in your browser. Once inside a Quick Labs, you'll see a "Start Lab" button and a timer countdown, as soon as you click start lab. Each of the labs are timed but note that we have padded the estimates of laois, especially for the more complicated labs upwards of 30 to 60 minutes, for you to play around inside the lab and perform the work. Once you do click that ''Start lab'' button, credentials are automatically going to be generated for you on the left hand side, so make note of your username and password. Now once you've got that username and password, the next step they're going to ask you to do is actually open up an Incognito Window, and type in console.cloud.google.com, which is given in the log in page for Google Cloud platform. Now, you'll notice a big yellow button that says ''Open Google Console''. Now this won't open it an Incognito Window and you might get some issues if you are already signed in to some of the Google Cloud products, if you have those for your personal accounts. So, Incognito Window first, type in console.cloud.google.com, and then log in to Google Cloud platform with those auto generated Quick Labs credentials, which will then give you access to your sandbox environment for the purposes of this lab. And once you've gone through that lab and you've completed it, when you feel confident you're ready to move on, you can actually click ''End Lab'' which will remove all of your resources, bring you back into the lecture, and you can continue on with the course. And one last note, is if you're worried about that time counting down to the end of the lab, is you actually get three attempts for each lab. So, even if you don't complete it within the required amount of time, don't worry, you can attempt it a second or third time. Or if you want additional practice, you can always reopen the lab and practice it again later on down the road.