COVID-19 Quiz Explanations

#1 Which of the following is true about about women and children and COVID-19?

A: COVID-19 is likely to infect fetuses

B: Pregnant individuals are at especially high risk of COVID-19 infection

C: Individuals with COVID-19 can safely breastfeed 

D: Young children are at high risk of COVID-19 infection

Explanation: COVID-19 is not shown to be transmitted to fetuses or through breast milk. Women can safely breastfeed, although will want to take precautions against spreading COVID-19 through respiratory droplets. Neither pregnant women or young childen have been shown to be at higher risk of illness due to COVID-19.

#2 What is the R naught of COVID-19?

A: Between 1 and 1.5

B: Between 1.5 and 2

C: Between 2 and 2.5

D: Between 2.5 and 3

Explanation: The R naught of COVID-19 is thought to be between 2 and 2.5, meaning that for each person with the disease, there will be 2 to 2.5 additional people that will get the disease over time. By comparison, the R naught for influenza is 1.3, which means its transmitted less easily than COVID-19.

#3 Which of the following was widely credited as the major factor to South Korea's success in managing the COVID-19 outbreak?

A: Having all people wear masks when outside the home

B: Travel restrictions

C: Rapidly building new hospitals

D: Widespread testing for COVID-19

Explanation: South Korea ensured widespread availability of testing and aggressively traced and tested contacts of individuals who developed COVID-19. This led to rapid quarantining of individuals and did not require a society-level lockdown.

#4 Which of the following explains why early in the disease RT-PCR can be negative even in patients that really do have COVID-19?

A: The test has a high sensitivity

B: The test has a high specificity

C: The test has a low sensitivity

D: The test has a low specificity

Explanation: RT-PCR has a low sensitivity early on in the disease, which is why the test can be negative even in patients that really do have COVID-19. Currently WHO and CDC guidelines recommend testing for other causes of respiratory illness, and if the chances of COVID-19 remain high, to consider retesting using RT-PCR from multiple respiratory sites or at a later time.

#5 How is a diagnosis of COVID-19 most commonly confirmed?

A: RT-PCR testing

B: Chest CT scan

C: Viral culture testing

D: Bacterial culture testing

Explanation: A diagnosis of COVID-19 is most commonly confirmed using RT-PCR testing.

#6 The virus that causes COVID-19 was believed to have originated in which species?

A: Bat

B: Pig

C: Bird

D: Horse

Explanation: The virus originally circulated in bats, but mutated to be able infect humans, leading to the COVID-19 outbreak.

#7 Which of the following individuals is most likely to have the highest mortality risk from COVID-19?

A: 8 year old boy with a peanut allergy

B: 23 year old man with chronic migraines.

C: 43 year old woman with gout

D: 82 year old woman with congestive heart failure

Explanation: Individuals over age 60 years old as well as those with comorbid conditions like cardiovascular disease are at the highest risk of mortality from COVID-19. The 82 year old woman meets both of these criteria and therefore has the highest mortality risk.

#8 Which of the following are the most classic symptoms of COVID-19?

A: Fever, headache, and neck stiffness

B: Fever, cough, and shortness of breath

C: Fatigue, nausea, and vomiting

D: Fatigue, headache, and diarrhea

Explanation: Fever, cough, and shortness of breath are the three most classic symptoms of COVID-19.

#9 What is the median incubation time of COVID-19?

A: 1 day

B: 5 days

C: 10 days

D: 14 days

Explanation: The median incubation time of COVID-19 is 5 days.

#10 Which of the following are CDC-recommended ways for healthy individuals to avoid getting COVID-19?

A: Staying 3 feet or 1 meter away from people with symptoms.

B: Wearing a surgical mask when you're in public

C: Washing your hands with soap and water.

D: Touching your eyes, but not touching your nose or mouth

Explanation: To prevent getting COVID-19, the CDC recommends individuals wash their hands with soap and water, stay at least 6 feet or 2 meters (not 3 feet or 1 meter) away from people with symptoms, and refrain from touching their eyes, nose, or mouth. The CDC does not recommend that healthy individuals wear a surgical mask, which are intended for health care workers. The CDC recently recommended individuals wear a cloth face covering when in public.

#11 Which of the following is a major cause of death among patients with COVID-19?

A: Acute respiratory distress syndrome

B: Renal failure

C: Hepatic encephalopathy

D: Brain herniation

Explanation: Acute respiratory distress syndrome and shock are the major causes of death among patients with COVID-19.

#12 What's one strategy for "raising the line"?

A: Making sure that everyone maximizes physical distance from each other

B: Ensuring providers have sufficient personal protective equipment (PPE)

C: Taking Tylenol for fever

D: Quarantining oneself for 14 days if diagnosed with COVID-19

Explanation: "Raisng the line" refers to increasing healthcare system capacity. Efforts to keep health workers safe from infection so they can provide care can increase their ability to care for more patients.

#13 As of April 2020, when is a COVID-19 vaccine expected to be widely available to the general public?

A: Later in the year 2020

B: In the year 2021

C: In the year 2022

D: In the year 2023

Explanation: A COVID-19 vaccine is expected to be available in 2021.

#14 What portion of patients with COVID-19 have mild symptoms?

A: 20%

B: 40%

C: 60%

D: 80%

Explantion: Roughly 80% of patients with COVID-19 have mild symptoms.

#15 Which of the following can play a role in how coronaviruses get transmitted?

A: Coughing

B: Contaminated surfaces

C: Sneezing

D: All of the above

Explanation: Coronaviruses can get transmitted by coughing or sneezing as well as by someone touching contaminated surfaces.

#16 Which of the following viruses causes COVID-19?

A: SARS-CoV-2

B: COVID-19 virus

C: Wuhan coronavirus

D: MERS virus

Explanation: SARS-CoV-2 is the virus responsible for causing COVID-19.

#17  Which of the following medications is recommended for all patients with COVID-19?

A: Hydroxychloroquine/chlorquine

B: Remdesivir

C: Lopinavir/ritonavir

D: None of the above

Explanation: While all of the medications listed are being investigated, currently no medical treatment has been proven to change the course of COVID-19 illness. Medical management is limited to symptomatic and supportive care. Prevention of infection is most important. 