Final Quiz Explanations

#1 Which of the following are the most classic symptoms of COVID-19?

    Fever, headache, and neck stiffness
    Fever, cough, and shortness of breath
    Fatigue, nausea, and vomiting
    Fatigue, headache, and diarrhea

Explanation: Fever, cough, and shortness of breath are the three most classic symptoms of COVID-19.

#2 Which of the following is a major cause of death among patients with COVID-19?

    Acute respiratory distress syndrome
    Renal Failure
    Hepatic encephalopathy
    Brain herniation

Explanation: Acute respiratory distress syndrome and septic shock are the major causes of death among patients with COVID-19.

#3 Which of the following individuals is most likely to have the highest mortality risk from COVID-19?

    8 year old boy with a peanut allergy
    23 year old man with chronic migraines
    43 year old woman with gout
    82 year old woman with congestive heart failure

Explanation: Individuals over age 60 years old as well as those with comorbid conditions like cardiovascular disease are at the highest risk of mortality from COVID-19. The 82 year old woman meets both of these criteria and therefore has the highest mortality risk.

#4 What is the median incubation time of COVID-19?

    1 day
    5 days
    10 days
    14 days

Explanation: The median incubation time of COVID-19 is 5 days.

#5 Which of the following can play a role in how coronaviruses get transmitted?

    Coughing
    Contaminated surfaces
    Sneezing
    All of the above

Explanation: Coronaviruses can get transmitted by coughing or sneezing as well as by someone touching contaminated surfaces.

#6 How is a diagnosis of COVID-19 most commonly confirmed?

    RT-PCR Testing
    Chest CT scan
    Viral culture testing
    Bacterial culture testing

Explanation: A diagnosis of COVID-19 is most commonly confirmed using RT-PCR testing.

#7 As of April 2020, when is a COVID-19 vaccine expected to be widely available to the general public?

    Later in the year 2020
    In the year 2021
    In the year 2022
    In the year 2023

Explanation: A COVID-19 vaccine is expected to be available in 2021.

#8 Which of the following explains why early in the disease RT-PCR can be negative even in patients that really do have COVID-19?

    The test has a high sensitivity
    The test has a high sensitivity
    The test has a low sensitivity
    The test has a low specificity

Explanation: RT-PCR has a low sensitivity early on in the disease, which is why the test can be negative even in patients that really do have COVID-19. Currently WHO and CDC guidelines recommend testing for other causes of respiratory illness, and if the chances of COVID-19 remain high, to consider retesting using RT-PCR from multiple respiratory sites or at a later time.

#9 Which of the following are CDC-recommended ways for healthy individuals to avoid getting COVID-19?

    Staying 3 feet or 1 meter away from people with symptoms
    Wearing a surgical mask when you're in public
    Washing your hands with soap and water
    Touching your eyes, but not touching your nose or mouth

Explanation: To prevent getting COVID-19, the CDC recommends individuals wash their hands with soap and water, stay at least 6 feet or 2 meters (not 3 feet or 1 meter) away from people with symptoms, and refrain from touching their eyes, nose, or mouth. The CDC does not recommend that healthy individuals wear a surgical mask, which are intended for health care workers. The CDC recently recommended individuals wear a cloth face covering when in public.