N95 Masks - Clinical Skills

N95 Masks Clinical Skills

Healthcare personnel who are caring for, or are otherwise in close proximity to, people suspected of having COVID-19 should wear N95 masks. Given that the supply of masks can get depleted quickly during an outbreak, these masks can be worn for extended use and limited reuse in many situations, assuming that the mask is working well and doesn’t pose the risk of cross-contamination. Non-healthcare personnel have a far lower risk of contracting COVID-19 and aren’t advised to wear N95 masks. For more information check out our video on COVID-19 on Osmosis.org. 

Hold the N95 mask in the palm of your hand. Check the mask to ensure it is in good condition. To apply it, point its nose up and let its elastics dangle towards the floor. Place the mask on your face, pull the bottom strap around your head, rest it below your ears. The top strap goes on the crown of your head. Remember, this order is important. Bottom strap always first. Mold the nose piece to fit your nose. Remember, comfort is important too. Less so, however.

Check for a good seal. Place hands in front of the mask and inhale quickly. Expect the mask to tighten around your face as you do. Place both hands completely around the mask. Exhale quickly. No air should leak through the mask’s edges. If air leaks around the nose, adjust the nosepiece. Around other edges? Adjust those straps.  Do you have a good seal? You should have a seal.

If you can’t quite get a seal, abandon this mask and try your luck with a different N95 make or model.

Don’t touch the mask itself. Remove the bottom strap first, followed by the top strap. Throw it in the trash.

Hi everybody, I’m Kyle here at Osmosis. This video is part of a clinical skill series that we’re currently developing. Before Osmosis, I used to work as a pediatric intensive care nurse and practiced many of these skills every day. Of course, because of the COVID-19 outbreak there is a lot of interest in N95 masks right now. Therefore, we thought it could be useful for people to know how to properly apply, wear, and remove these masks, because many members of our audience are part of a healthcare team. Healthcare personnel who are caring for, or are otherwise in close proximity to, people suspected of having COVID-19 should wear N95 masks. Given that the supply of masks can get quickly depleted during an outbreak, these masks can be worn for extended use and limited reuse in many situations, assuming that the mask is working well and doesn’t pose the risk of cross-contamination. Non-healthcare personnel have a far lower risk of contracting COVID-19 and aren’t advised to wear N95 masks. For more information check out our video on COVID-19 on Osmosis.org.

Author: Kyle Slinn, RN, BScN, MEd

Clinician: Gabrielle Proper, RN, BScN

Editor: Damien Caissie, Elizabeth Krupa, MD

Citations:

Donning Ppe: Put on N95 Respirator Personal Protective Equipment (ppe) (2014, Oct 29). Retrieved March 16, 2020, from https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/hcp/ppe-training/n95respirator_gown/donning_09.html

Frequently Asked Questions About Personal Protective Equipment (2020, Mar 14). Retrieved March 16, 2020, from https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/respirator-use-faq.html

Cdc - Recommended Guidance For Extended Use and Limited Reuse of N95 Filtering Facepiece Respirators in Healthcare Settings - Niosh Workplace Safety and Health Topic (2018, Mar 28). Retrieved March 16, 2020, from https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/hcwcontrols/recommendedguidanceextuse.html