[SOUND]
>> CSS works by associating
rules with HTML elements. These rules govern how the content of
specified elements should be displayed. And while styling an entire web page
could be a pretty complex process, defining a simple CSS rule
is fairly straightforward. So, let's go over that. A CSS rule consists of selector,
in this case it's a p, the paragraph tag, which is basically saying that whatever
rules I'm about to give should apply to the content of every single paragraph
tag in the entire HTML page. The selector is followed by open and
close curly braces. Inside of those braces,
we have CSS declaration. And it consist of two parts,
the property and the value. Property name is something that's
predefined by CSS specification, and for every property there is a set
number of pre-defined values. Or in the case of numerical values, set number of type of numerical
values that is pre-defined. Now, every property in the value
is separated by a colon, and is terminated by a semicolon. Now, technically speaking,
a semicolon is not a requirement, but it's a best practice, and
you should always, always use it. Now, as I told you, a CSS rule can
consist of several declarations. For example, in this case we're specifying
the contents of the paragraph tags in our HTML page should have a particular
color, a particular font size, and also be a particular width,
meaning the paragraph itself, the content, should take up 200 pixels. Now, the collection of these CSS
rules is what's called a style sheet. Now, technically speaking, you don't have to have anything in the
style sheet to be called a style sheet. An empty style sheet,
it technically is a style sheet as well. But it's just not a very useful one. So, obviously, you would have
at least one CSS rule in there. But, typically,
you have way more than just one. Okay, here I am in sublime text and I'm
looking at a file called css-syntax.html and it's located in
the examples/Lecture12 folder. Let me give you a quick rundown of
the structure of the HTML that we have. So, in this HTML document we have
a heading, h1, a couple of h2s, and a couple of paragraphs in between
signified by the p paragraph tag. And what we'll want to do is give
these elements some custom styling. So, I'm going to place the styling, our style sheet, straight in the head
section of our HTML document. Now, in later lecture we'll talk about
where CSS styles should really go for a real world website. But for now, for convenience sake, we'll just put it
straight in the head part of the document. So, here we see a paragraph
tag that's being targeted. And we're going to change it's color to
blue, font size to 20, and width 200, which means it will contain an area
of the screen that's 200 pixels wide. Our heading one tag, h1,
we're going to give it a color of green, we'll bump up it's font
size a little bit and we'll also tell it to align itself
in the middle of the screen. So, let's take a look at what this
page looks like in the browser. As you could see, our h1 tag is in
the middle of the screen, and it's green. And the two paragraphs that we have are
blue and only take up around 200 pixels. And already, right away,
you could see the power of CSS. We only specified
the paragraph tagged once, and yet every paragraph in the document
is styled exactly the same. So, it affords us consistency and
also efficiency is writing CSS code. Now, I do want to point out one quick but
important thing. If you take a look at this subheading 1,
and then subheading 2, you can see that it is bold and it's a little
bit bigger than the regular text would be. Now, where did that style come from? I certainly never specified what
kind of styling to apply to, essentially, what is an h2 tag. Well, that styling came
from the browser itself. Every browser comes with some default
styles that it applies to different HTML elements. And h1, h2, and so on, and different other elements are very
commonly styled by the browser itself. So, a lot of the times it's your
job to really reset, or override, these styles and put the styles in that
you would like your webpage to have. So, to summarize,
we went over the syntax of a CSS rule. We talked about the selector part,
declaration part and the property value pair. We also talked about combining the CSS
rules into one to create a style sheet. Next, we're going to zero in on the one
part of the CSS rule declaration, and that is the selector. We're going to talk about
different types of selectors. In particular, element,
class and ID selectors.