In part one of the this lecture we wrote
the HTML for the first cell in our grid, in this lecture we're going
to start styling that cell. Okay so for now we have only one cell so
let's go ahead and grab this and copy it, so we at least have two cells
to take a look at in the browser. Let's save that, and
let's go to the browser. And, here we are. So, we see that we have our picture here. Picture with what looks like an egg roll. With to the right of it, we have our
title of the menu and some lorem ipsum text that's going to be a description
with, it's not really styled yet. This D01 is sitting all the way here,
Instead of down here and this is not styled 100% either. So let's go back to the code editor and
give it some styles. First of all, let's give the second cell
instead of d1, let's give it a d2 so we can understand
the difference between the two. Let's go open our styles.css and I already have some pre-made styles
that I prepared before the lecture. So let's go ahead and copy and paste them
right under our menu category styles. Let's go find them real quick. They should be under home,
menu categories, page. And here it is so let's go ahead and
paste it right here and what we're going to do is we're
going to comment them out so we'll go one by one and
explain them a little bit better that way. Let's comment them out right here and the first thing we want to
do is the menu item tile. So the menu item tile is this one
right here its that single cell grid, in other words that's this whole thing
that is this single cell grid right here. So what we're doing here is I want
the margin bottom to be 25 pixels, so basically what we're doing is we're saying
I want to separate this a little bit from the next row even though it's not a
technically bootstrap grid row it's going to be a next row just because some of the
items or a lot of these items are going to start spilling over to the next line and
there is going to be two of them per line. Okay. This hr here, the item tile hr,
should only show up when we're squeezing the browser past, I believe the small,
when it gets to be extra small. So let's save it and
take a look at our browser and let's see what's going on here. Let's squeeze the browser a little bit and
see if that hr shows up. And when we get to super small,
the chart there shows up to visually separate the first item
from the second item and so on. So let's go ahead and
stretch it back out and go back to our code editor and
let's style the pressing here. Let's remove this down
the line right here. In fact that's actually those
are two pricing type of styles so let's style them together, okay so
the first thing we're doing is the menu item tile that is followed
by menu item price. So the menu item price that is sitting
inside of the element with a class name menu a new item tile,
let's go take a look at the HTML of that. So the menu item tile is right here and
the menu item price is right there. So basically, we're targeting this thing
right here, this dip where the prices are. So let's go back to styles.css. And what we're doing is we're
increasing it's font a little bit. Aligning it to the right because we
wanted to align to the right over here, to the right of this picture. So we're aligning it to the right. And we're giving it
a margin top negative 15. And a margin right of negative 15, so that is probably something that you will
probably see that we need to adjust. In fact, let's go ahead and comment that out just to see what
would happen if we didn't have that. Let's go ahead and comment that out. And let's go back to the code editor. Well actually before we do that,
remember that stand that we had, the kind of unit portion,
either pint or quart. Well we're just making that smaller. That's how we're targeting it, we're
saying that inside the menu item price is a span, and that span should
have a font size that's smaller. So let's save that and
go back to our browser. And it looks pretty good. We see that we have the pints and
the quarts smaller. These things are a little bit bigger. The picture is done pretty well so far,
so I don't remember why I coded up these margins when I prepared to code for
this lecture so I'm going to just leave them off for now let's go ahead and
keep going in styling some more things. So let's go ahead and
move this over here and actually these two things probably go together very
well so let's leave those alone together. And so we're styling here is the picture. So let's move that up. So we're styling the picture. First of all remember that
picture is going to have a little sign at the bottom right of
the item number that corresponds to their, to the restaurant's existing menu. So for that we need to make the container
element which is this item photo, .menu-item-photo, position: relative;. So we're making that position relative,
giving it a nice maroon border, two pixel border. Again, if anything overflows,
we're going to go ahead and clip that, make it padding zero,
move the margin 15 pixels. To the left, meaning margin right will
be moved to the left a little bit. And the margin left we'll leave as auto. So this is something that's going to
basically separate nicely between the left side of our cell, and the right
side of our cell where the description is. We'll give it a nice margin
bottom of 20 pixels or so. And the maximum width of 250 pixels. Let's go ahead and take a look at the HTML of the menu
item photo, right here, menu item photo. And you see that we made
the image responsive. Well the image is 250 pixels wide. We don't want the image to be any bigger
than that, otherwise this is going to become pixelated and the layout is
probably going to get messed up as well. So that is why we're saying that
the maximum width it can ever go is 250 pixels. Don't stretch this element anymore. Okay, then there's the menu
item photo followed by a div. Well let's take a look as
to what we're targeting. So the menu item photo is right here. And the div is that kind
of corresponding ID of the menu that's corresponding
to the restaurant's menu. So let's go head and position that. And obviously we're in position absolute,
bottom zero, right zero so we'll be in the bottom right corner and we're going to
give it width of 80 pixels, the background is going to be this greenish color, and
we're going to center it within that div. The text is going to be
centered within that div. So if we save that and
go back to our browser we see that it's now nicely sitting
right inside of that picture and kind of identifies for
us what the menu item is. Now I actually can see because of
positioning of this element and all the margins and all the different
paddings that we're having over here this whole price thing
moved down quite a bit. So now if we go back to the code editor, I know understand why I
originally put the margin here. So let's go ahead and remove the comments
here, because if I actually do need these margins, to move up the pricing and
make it a little bit nicer looking. So when we do that, look at that. It's aligned down nicely
together with the picture. This still looks kind of
misaligned a little bit, but we didn't work on that yet. So, right now, the left side of our
cell grid, both of them because they're old class base so they apply to
both sides or both grid cells. They're looking pretty good. Let's go back to the code editor and
continue our styling here. So, the description, so let's move that down here and we'll go
ahead and actually remove it altogether. And here's our description so
padding right is 30 pixels. And the reason we're doing
this is we want the content of the item description to be moved
a little bit away from the right either element which is going to be
a second cell in our grid or if its the second one then we want to move
it away from the edge of the browser. The h3.menu-item-title and
we're giving it some margins. So let's take a look as to
what we're talking about here. So here is the h3 and the h3.menu-item-title basically says,
this is the title of our menu item. And what we're doing here is
we're giving it some margins. So we're giving it top zero,
right zero ten on the bottom. And again the zero transfers
to the fourth location. So to the left of zero. So basically we're just giving
it a margin bottom really. A fancy way of giving it
a margin bottom of zero. And possibly also zeroing out some margins
that this item inherited from it's parent. Last but not least,
the actual menu-item-details class. We're going to decrease its font slightly
to .9 m's, and we're also going to give it a font style of italic so
it will look a little bit nicer that way. Okay, so now we'll save this. I'll go back to our browser, and now it's nicely aligned and
everything looks pretty good. So the only thing that's left
is to check out whether or not the responsive part
is working pretty well. Let's go ahead and
squeeze the browser and see. Well in this case this looks alright and let's squeeze it a little bit more,
and this looks not so bad. And in this case,
this doesn't look so good at all. So this is probably around small, right? So this is the small screen size. What we really want is we
want this whole item photo, we want it to go all
the way to the center. And we want this to be centered as well. We don't want this kind of
this going to the right, and this going to the left,
that looks kind of weird. And let's check out first as to what's
the screen size that this is happening at. It looks to me like that's the extra
small, but let's just double check here. Let's see, this is around what area? This is 700 and xix hundred and
seventy something pixels so that definitely sounds like extra small because
extra small starts around 767 pixels. So let's go back to our code editor and
let's scroll down to the extra small device media query right here,
the extra small. And let's put some styles that will
fix this, the whole issue here. But first,
let's go back to the browser and investigate why this thing
is going to the right. Well, let's go ahead and
inspect the element right here. And we'll see that menu item right here. And let's see what we're applying here. As you could see when it is stacking
our margins really are working out. We have a margin at left of auto. We do have a maximum width which
is good because that makes us kind of anchored as to what with this. But the margin right is -15 pixels when in fact it really should
be probably outer as well. If it's going to be outer on the right,
and outer on the left this element will
naturally position itself in the middle. Okay, so
that's as far as this is concerned. What about the description
of the menu item. Let's go ahead and inspect that,
let's pull this down so we can see what we're inspecting here. That's the menu item
description right here. So why is that on the left? There really does not appear to be any
other reason other than the fact that it's just simply not aligned to the center. Okay.
So we could do that. Let's go back to the code editor. And inside of our small,
extra small screen size, inside of that media query,
we'll go ahead and write some styles. So first of all, the menu. Menu-item-photo, that's the first one, that's the actual picture but
what we were missing there, what we're missing margin-right being
auto instead of negative 15 pixels. So if we just do that and
go back to our browser, very good. So we could see that this
is now aligned properly. Now this is still sitting up to the right. But that's probably because we just
need to center it on the screen. Let's go back to the code editor. And we'll go ahead and
find the pricing that's going on. So the pricing is menu-item-price
that's sitting inside menu-item-tile. So if we actually go into styles C-S-S,
we could say. Menu-tem-tile followed by menu-item-price. And that's the thing that we'll need
to make text aligned to the center. So if we do that and
go back to our browser and there we go. So this aligns now very nicely
together with this picture. So the only thing that's left is to
align the description of the menu item. So let's go back to the code editor. And let's go ahead and do that. And let's look in our HTML. That, what is that description? The description is
the menu item description. That's the class. So let's go ahead and copy that. And we'll say menu-item-description. And we'll do again,
text-align being center. Okay. So, let's save that. So go back to our browser. And now we have both things nicely
aligned in the center for both items. So this point we seem
like we're good here. Okay, so we're going to stop here for
part two of this lecture. And in part three of this lecture
we're going to take a look at an issue that often creeps up, especially with
the data that you don't control like, for example, the description of items that
may come from the server later and may be shorter or longer depending on how
the owner of the site decided to describe each of the menu items.