Creating and connecting a thing



Before attempting to create a new Thing, you need to decide what the Thing will do, how it will connect to the network, and how it will work. You need to find graphics to represent the 
states of your new Thing. Usually you will need two graphics, one to represent the beginning or default state and another to represent the end state. You also need to identify an existing 
Thing that functions in a similar manner as the new Thing. The existing script can then be modified to create the new script.

Clicking on any IoT device that is in the workspace will reveal the specifications about that device. The specifications include:

• Features – how the device works or what it does. Devices can generate high and low values based on a button being pushed or toggled on and off or they can detect certain environmental 
values (eg. Smoke or sunlight)

• Usage – Things may connect to other IoT devices in order to receive LOW or HIGH inputs or it may read the variable set in the Environment object

• Direct Control – shows you what keystrokes will allow you to physically interact with the Thing

• Local and Remote Control – shows how to control the Thing locally or remotely (if applicable)

• Data Specifications – how the values are produced or the port/slot used to connect to the sensor

• Example – Describes an example of how it works

To create the new Thing:

1. Click the Advanced tab/Thing Editor from within the existing object specifications page.

2. Associate the new graphics to their respective states by clicking on a state and browsing to the location of the graphic on your local device. The images will be saved automatically.

3. Click on the Config tab to select the network adaptor to be used to connect to the network (if applicable).

To save the new Thing:

1. Select Tools/Custom Device Dialog from the uppermost toolbar.

2. Within the Device Template Manager.

a. Click on Select and click on the Thing to be saved.

b. Modify the template and description as appropriate.

c. Click on the type of new Thing.

d. Click on Add – the new template will be saved in the PT template file on the local disk and the customized Thing will now display with the other sensors.

NOTE: This local version of Packet Tracer, with the new Thing, can be sent to another user as long as the user also has the new template on their local disk.

Click Play in the video to see how to create, modify, and save a new Thing.

Click here to read a transcript of this video.
