SO, YOU’RE LOOKING FOR A COURSE THAT WILL TEACH YOU FIREFOX QUICKLY & IN A FUN MANNER?

I’ve got just the course for you!

Welcome, my name is Josh Werner with Learn Tech Plus and I’ve put this course together to help people just like you quickly master Firefox...Whether you’re a beginner or a web developer with existing programming knowledge/skills!

If your goal is to become a web developer, then this course is perfect for you. It’ll get you started on the right path and give you the knowledge and skills you need to troubleshoot and debug your code in a web browser...

Learning Firefox is Not only for web developers, but also everyone else. Because when you have mastered Firefox, you can test your websites online and offline by yourself, edit any web pages when needed (for example landing pages) versus having to get someone else to do it for you which can cost both time and money!

In short, a good understanding of Firefox is tremendously beneficial.

Now, in this course, we’ll go far beyond that. By the end of it, you’ll have gained complete proficiency in Firefox even if you’re currently a complete beginner!


THAT’S RIGHT...NO PRIOR EXPERIENCE OR KNOWLEDGE IS REQUIRED!

You don’t need any previous experience or knowledge to take this course. In fact, all you need is a desire to learn and master Firefox.

This is not one of those courses that will throw too much at you at once and cause you to get overwhelmed. This is a course that you’ll not only learn so much from, but also enjoy the journey as you’re learning (which is a very important part of the learning process)

The course will take you by the hand and teach you everything you need to know step by step and even put your knowledge to practice immediately by working on a real-world project.

On top of this, you will also get my continuous support as well to make sure you’re successful with my course.


LEARN FIREFOX BY DOING!

Here’s what we’ll cover in the course:

1. Download & Install Firefox

2. Features

3. Add-ons

4. Options

5. Customize

6. Web Developer Tools


YOU CAN TRY MY COURSE FOR 30 DAYS WITH UDEMY’S MONEY BACK GUARANTEE!

Enroll Now I’d love to see you inside and help you learn and master Firefox!


Lo que aprenderás

    Firefox Features
    Sign In to Sync
    Downloads
    Content Blocking
    New Window
    New Private Window
    New Tab
    Keyboard Shortcuts
    Zoom
    Logins and Passwords

¿Hay requisitos para realizar el curso?

    Have a computer with internet access

¿Para quién es este curso?

    Beginner Developers looking for a Main Web Browser to develop with.
    Student looking to learn new Web Browser