[MUSIC] Our company's mission is to 
educate the world. We believe that education is the great equalizer and that many of 
the world's problems could be made a lot better if more people
had access to education, and that includes problems like unemployment, 
like hunger, even extremism, and if you educate 
people you open doors for them, to make life better for themselves, for their families, 
and for the communities. For me this project started about four
years ago when a group of us who had been award-winning faculty were
invited by John Bravman who was then the Vice Provost for undergraduate 
education at Stanford and he invited us to talk about how to open up more room in the curriculum for a meaningful engagement
between faculty and students. And there were a bunch of us in the room
and ideas were thrown around. Nothing particularly gelled. And then two months later I 
happened to be at a Google Faculty Summit, listening 
to a talk about YouTube. And all of a sudden it came to me that
instead of lecturing in the classroom, the same lecture that I'd been 
giving for fifteen years, telling the same jokes 
at the same time, maybe we could take that, and preserve it,
and in fact make it available to students in a much more engaging format that has more interaction than you get 
in a classroom. So I went to, back to John Bravman and he
got very enthusiastic and he took me to see President John Hennessey
of Stanford, who also was very excited and in fact supported this project with a
generous seed grant in order to try and build up the technology as well as
the pedagogy for making this happen. And so we piloted this in my class 
and developed some of the ideas that ended up making their way into
Coursera, including the short video chunks, the integration of 
assessments into the video stream, the significant 
number of autograded assessments that 
allow the students to test their knowledge of the material. And, and so that was part of the project. And then in parallel to that, 
my colleague and co-founder Andrew Ng was actually working on a
different trajectory, which is let's teach the world, and ended up 
developing pieces of the design and technology and pedagogy independently
in the context of this other project. And at some point we realized that the
projects were remarkably well aligned because the same ideas, the same
designs, the same contents could be used for both improving the quality of
the instruction for our on-campus students and for offering a meaningful course experience 
for the world. And so that realization culminated 
in the fall of 2011 with the three large Stanford classes that Stanford opened to the world, 
the machine learning class, the database class, and the AI class. And each of those classes 
had an enrollment of 100,000 students or more, 
which was just a completely mind-blowing 
experience because no one expected that to have this 
level of uptake. And so in the fall, after we 
saw that this was happening, we realized that we 
needed to do something with this. We needed to build up on this success and do something even bigger 
and more impactful. And it seemed clear that in 
order to let this have as, the largest impact that 
it could possibly have in terms of teaching all these people 
around the world who would never have access to this 
kind of high-quality education, we needed to make this available not just
to Stanford, but to a number of top institutions who could offer their
great content to all of these people. And so that's when we decided to 
spin this out of Stanford and make this, build up this platform that
would provide this great experience for students as well as a good
experience for faculty to effectively offer these large online
classes that they could open to the world. >> But were you preparing for the fall of 2011 for like  a year, or, 
or did you just? >> No. It was kind of of a bit of a 
last-minute decision to try out these classes 
in this format. And I don't think anyone anticipated the
extent to which this would take off and have this huge impact, and
uptake in the world. >> So, really you kind of were laying down
a lot of the early code in the fall. >> Yeah. >> [LAUGH] >> So, what happened was in 
I think August is when the decision was made, and we 
realized that the platforms that we had been using inside Stanford 
were just not up to the task of being available, robustly, to
hundreds of thousands of students. Or even tens of thousands, which is what we
thought we would have at that point. And so we started to build up 
a platform from scratch using a group of graduate students and
three undergraduates, just unbelievably talented individuals, who ended up also
being the core group that would form the engineering team of
Coursera down the line. One of the things that we tried to build into this project from the
very beginning are opportunities for interaction of the students 
with the material, as well as interaction of the students 
with their peers. And there's different ways 
in which that happens. In terms of interaction with 
the material, we do a lot of active exercises where 
the system basically checks the student's work so that the 
student is told whether he or she are actually getting the
material or not. And it's important that those 
tests, those, those assessments, if you will, 
are deep and meaningful. And on the other hand, they also need to
be graded at scale, because when you have a hundred thousand students 
you can't have a TA or an instructor in the loop 
manually checking papers. And so we have all sorts of different
things that we can check at scale. You know, multiple choice is the obvious one, but one can also check 
numerical answers. One can check, check math. One can autograde programming
assignments, and by programming assignments that just don't mean 
just code for computer sciences. An Excel spreadsheet is a programming
assignment in effect too, and you can now grade a financial model or a
marketing model as well. But none of those are the kinds of
solutions that would allow us to support all of the classes that we would like, specifically when you want
classes that require something that's more critical 
thinking where a student would need to write down 
some argument for one thing versus another 
or discuss the arguments or the causal chain 
behind some historical event, or do a, a detailed analysis of a
legal case or something. You cannot do that using 
autograding right now. Maybe if, maybe down the line, artificial
intelligence will solve that problem for us, but I'm not counting on it 
in the near future. And so how do you do that? And that's where, again, the social
component of the platform, which is the other big piece of it, 
has come to our help because we ended up putting 
in place a peer-grading pipeline where students can robustly and
reproducibly grade each other's work. And it turns out that not only that 
is an effective way of grading at scale, it's also a valuable learning experience for the students, 
and studies have not, not by us, but by educational
researchers, have shown that peer rating teaches the students 
something, as well as provides a scalable solution 
to grading. One of the things that we try 
to build in is an opportunity for students to interact
with each other in meaningful ways. And have one student help each other
through the hard bits and have the students work together to achieve
a better outcome for everyone. And so, for example, we had a question 
and answer forum where students really were the primary ones responsible for answering 
each other's questions. And there was a real community built up around that where students felt 
incredibly motivated to help each other and answer 
each other's questions to the point that in the fall quarter of 2011, the median response time 
for a question posted on the forum was 22 minutes, which is not a level of service that I, as an instructor, have ever 
offered my students. But because there was such a broad worldwide community of students 
all working together, there was, even if you were 
doing something at 3 o'clock in the morning, 
chances are that somewhere around the world, 
there would be somebody who was awake and thinking about 
the same problem. And so that social community was really an essential part, I think, of 
the student's experience. And critical to the engagement 
and retention of students in the, in the course. >> I just imagine these people 
living in Zurich getting together in a coffee shop and as a study group. So what, what were some of your
experiences, or others' experiences 
on study groups? >> So it turned out that study groups
were something that we hadn't built into the platform originally,
it's something that we will do soon. But it grew organically. So people
basically, without even being suggested to do that, ended up constructing 
study groups on the Q&A forums. So they said that, we have a study group
in London, who wants to join us? We have an, a, a study group of, of Arab
speakers or Hispanics or different types of groupings depending on, you know, geography or language or, or 
sometimes other things. We have, in one class, a global study group, which is specifically 
people who are looking to connect to people who are not part
of their local culture and geography. And so this was really a fun thing for the
students and some of them met physically, those that had geographical proximity, and
others just communicated in the virtual space, but this organic growth
was just such a powerful thing for students that we really quickly 
realized that we needed to build this into the platform. >> You probably are so busy that 
you don't have any time to think too far in the future, but 
I'm going to just sort of see. Where, what's your dream? >> Our dream is that anyone 
around the world will have an Internet connection, maybe via 
mobile device, which seems to be the way to go in most developing 
countries right now because of the way the infrastructure is
developed, or not developed until now. And that people will be able to 
learn the things that they care about. And 
some of these will be things that are pragmatic 
and will help them get a better job and make 
more money so they can support their families. 
And some of them will be just ways to expand one's 
understanding and one's imagination by learning amazing things that 
you didn't know about because I think it's unfortunate 
that for most of us learning ends when we finish high school
or when we finish college and that's the last time we learn anything. And
wouldn't it be really cool if we had access to a life-long learning experience
that, where you could come and say, I think this is a really cool topic 
and I'd like to learn more about that. And you would have access to a really
amazing course taught by the top scholar in 
his or her field that could teach that. [MUSIC]