Now let's do a lab activity. We'll show how easy it is to start and use your first Windows Virtual Machine
in Google Cloud platform. >> In this demo, we'll create a new
project on Google Cloud platform, provision a Windows Virtual Machine and Google Compute Engine then access
using Remote Desktop protocol. You can see that I've already
logged in to Google Cloud platform using my Google account. I'm looking at the Cloud Console. This is a simple and easy to use
browser based user interface for accessing Google Cloud platform
resources such as virtual machines. On GCP, all resources must
be created in a project. The project serves as a container for
billing and security purposes. So first, I'll create a project by
clicking on the Create Project button. Now I'm looking at the new project form. I'll just enter a project name. For this demo I'll name the project
Windows Workloads Demo. You should see that a project ID has been
created based on my project name, but with lowercase letters and dashes
replacing uppercase letters and spaces. Next I'll click Create, and
the project will be created. I'll pause the video for
a few seconds while the project spins up. Okay, we're back. Now our project is up and running,
it's time to take a look around. I'll select the project and then navigate to the project's home page
using the products and services menu. This provides a convenient location to look up all the resources you're
working with inside your project. The products and services menu provides
an easy to use and convenient interface that lets you access all of the products
and services on the platform. Notice how they're organized into
product families, so we have Compute, Storage, Stack Driver, Tools,
Big Data, and Machine Learning. As this demo is focused
on Windows workloads, we're going to provision
a Windows Virtual Machine. In order to do this,
we'll make use of Google Compute Engine. On GCP, Compute Engine is the
infrastructure as a service product that allows us to provision virtual machines
with a wide variety of configurations. So, I'll select Compute Engine, and you can see that the Compute Engine API
is just getting ready. This will take a few seconds, and
I'll pause the video while this happens. Okay, we're back again. Now I can create a virtual machine. In the console, I do this by
clicking on the Create button. Now we're looking at
the create an instance form. There are lots of options to configure. But for now, I'll just modify
one to change the boot disk to make use of
a Windows Server 2016 image. I'll select the image then scroll
to the bottom of the form, click Create, and we're done. In just a few seconds our
virtual machine will be ready. I'll pause the video while we do this. Okay, now the VM is ready. To access Windows Virtual Machines
on Compute Engine, we'll need to perform a couple
of simple operational tasks. First we need to set a password,
which we can do by clicking on the menu, and then selecting create or
reset Windows password. On this form we'll hit the Set button and
then our password will be displayed. We'll need to keep a safe
record of this for our own use. I paused the video just before
the password was displayed, and copied it to my clipboard. Now I can use it to RDP into the machine. And to do this, I'm going to
make use of a Chrome extension. You can also use any other RDP client. So click on RDP. You'll notice that the Chrome
extension is loading. Simply enter the password, click on OK. We'll have to just click Continue because
the certificate hasn't been registered onto my local machine. And we'll be in. You can see that it's a completely
standard Windows user interface. I can store whatever software
I like onto this machine. That completes this demo. We've created a Google Cloud platform
project, enabled the Compute Engine API, provisioned a Windows Virtual Machine,
then connected to it using RDP.