Now let's look at
a reference architecture for Windows workloads on
Google Cloud Platform. For traditional Windows applications,
you'll want to insure that your Windows Active Directory environment
is extended into Google Cloud Platform. You might run a read only
Active Directory secondary server or perhaps use
Active Directory Federation Services. You'll notice in this diagram that we've
connected the on-premises resources to Google Cloud Platform using
the Google VPN resource. This will enable you to treat the Google
Cloud Platform resources as a seamless extension of your private network
applications and services. Here are some useful tips in terms
of Google Compute Engine network configuration, specifically for
Windows virtual machines. When you provision virtual machines,
the default network configuration is to have a private IP address
visible to the instance and a public IP address that's
maintained by Compute Engine. When a machine doesn't
have a public IP address, then it's not able to
connect to the Internet without configuring a separate machine as
the network addressed translation gateway. This is important for Windows virtual
machines, as they need to be able to connect to the Internet to contact
the Windows license server when the machine is first provisioned, and
subsequently at regular intervals. So you'll need to ensure that your
network configuration supports this. It's also important to remember that
there are two firewalls in play with Windows virtual machines, both the one
running in your Windows server and the Google Compute Engine firewall. The Compute Engine default firewall
allows RDP traffic and ICMP, so you can ping your instance. SSH is also important, but not so
important for Windows VMs. You'll probably want to
lock down RDP access, so it's only possible from your
on-premises environment. And if you've got a VPN connection,
remove the default RDP rule altogether. You also need to think about what
other ports should be opened. For example, if you want to publish
ASP.NET MVC applications using Web Deploy from your
on-premises environment, and you don't have a VPN connection
then you need to open up port 3389. One final network feature is
that VMs can be configured with a fixed internal IP address. Doing this means that
the address is preserved even when the machine is shut down from an
extended period of time, then restarted. Without a fixed internal address, the address is assigned
by Google's DHCP service. Let's also look at Google Compute Engine
storage configuration. The default storage configuration for
Windows virtual machines is a single 50 gigabyte persistent
disk based on spinning hard drives. Persistent disk on Compute Engine,
a network attached block storage devices where the performance scales
with the size of the disks, and are automatically replicated three times. They come in two types, regular and SSD. SSD drives offer higher throughput, and much higher apps performance than regular
hard drives at higher cost per gigabyte. Take a look at the DOCs for
absolute performance numbers. You can have a maximum of 64 terabytes
of storage per virtual machine and you can split this up over multiple
distinct disks of different types. One nice feature of Google Compute Engine
disks is that they can be attached to multiple machines in read-only mode. In addition,
you can also provision local SSDs. This has even higher IOPs performance
than a persistent SSD, but does not survive a virtual
machine shutdown. You should use this as
a local scratch disk or cache drive where
the application needs that. Disk can also be backed up using
Google Computer Engine snapshots. These integrate with
the Windows volume shadow copy service which means that usually there
is no need to pause disk activity to backup a disk on Compute Engine. Another product on the platform that
you should be aware of is Stackdriver. This provides single pane of glass
monitoring, logging, tracing, and error reporting across all your
Compute Engine virtual machines. There's an available Stackdriver agent for Windows to enable collection of
key metrics from your Windows VMs.