[MUSIC] I mentioned before that on the web,
content is king. It's all about content. And we spoke about the fact that HTML
defines the structure of that content. So if all you wanted was raw content, you could take HTML files,
upload them to a server, and you're done. However, that would be a huge mistake. Because while content is king, how
users absorb and relate to that content largely depends on our experience of
consuming the presentation of it. If there was a lot of noise around me and you could barely hear me, the content
of the course would be the same, but the experience consuming the presentation
of that content would be quite different. To use the house analogy,
nobody likes to live in a house without nicely painted drywall covering
installation and support beams. It's the difference between feeling
sheltered from outside elements and feeling at home. The point I'm trying to make, is when it comes to a real world website,
structure alone is just not enough. It's not good enough to
just leave a scaffolding, a server side framework provided
out of the box, to see the data. You need to style your content in a way
that's pleasing and useful to the user. The use of color, positioning, size,
among other things, is all part of that. Cascading style sheets, or CSS, is the technology that provides
the styling capability. CSS is an incredibly powerful technology. It can take the same HTML structure and present it in such drastically different
ways that you would never even guess that the underlying structure of
the content are exactly the same ones. Let me show you a website that doesn't
only illustrate this point, but should also amaze you as well. So the website I wanted to show
you is csszengarden.com, and the idea of this website is simple. Designers and web developers
from all over the world get to submit their own designs for
the website csszengarden.com. So they get to redesign the website
itself csszengarden.com. There's only one catch. They cannot change any of the HTML. The HTML stays exactly the same and the
CSS file, or files, is what they provide. So the only thing they
change is the styling. They don't change the structure or
the content of the HTML at all, in any shape or form. So the website then goes ahead and
showcases its designs on csszengarden.com. And they have over 200 designs submitted
now and hosted on this website. So what I want to do is just to give you
an appreciation of what styling can do to a website, through the same content,
through the same HTML structure, is to demo and just basically showcase
a couple of these designs to you. So what I did was, I pre-opened a few of them in a few tabs
in my browser and I want to show you. So, this is the same website. This is the website you're looking at,
it's the HTML and the custom CSS for this particular look. So, let me just scroll up and
down to show you what that looks like. And let's go to this one. So this is, again, the exact same website. The only difference is the CSS
styling that got applied to it. This is the same website, again,
with different CSS styling applied to it. Now granted, the designers are also
able to apply their imagery as well. But the the styling is so drastically
different than from the original one. And there's, again, over 200
different styles, different designers that submitted different styles, so
you could certainly go take a look. And this one is very creative. It's actually made in the form of a comic. And the text is real, it's selectable,
so this is still the same exact HTML. And this one probably will blow you away. Look at this, it's so cool. There's actually animation's going on and
it's all done with CSS. And, again,
it's exactly the same HTML structure. And exactly the same content, you just
see different styles applied to them. Is this neat or what? So the point of this short lecture was
that CSS is an incredibly powerful technology that can not only style your
content, but also also create a particular user experience that you would
want your users to have. And the second point was
that user experience over your content matters, right? Remember the difference between listening
to something that you could barely hear, and listening to something that you
actually enjoy and can understand. So user experience of content matters. So all that's left is to figure
out how to write CSS code. So next we'll start exploring
the syntax of CSS and we'll explore the anatomy of a CSS rule.