[SOUND]
Okay, so here I am in Sublime Text and
I'm looking at the file called index.html, which is located in the examples,
Lecture25 folder. You could see there are some extra folders
that are inside the Lecture25 folder, namely css, fonts, and js folders. Now where did I get them? Well, they come from the installation or
download, to be more exact, of Bootstrap. Let's switch to the Bootstrap web page,
which can be found at getbootstrap.com, and we're looking at
the Getting started page. We could look at actually the front page. Here is that quote that I actually
put on one of the slides. But if we click on Getting started, the
very first section here is Download, and we could choose a whole bunch
of different options here, but the simplest one is to
choose Bootstrap itself. It's already compiled from some sources
and you can just click Download. When you download this and
unzip it, inside that zip file, you'll have three folders, and the three
folders will be css, fonts and js. And if you open up the css folder, you'll
see that this is where the bootstrap.css is located, and bootstrap.min.css, it's
just a different version of bootstrap.css. That is the minified version,
meaning they removed all the spaces and extra things like that,
that when you download it to your browser, those extra spaces and carriage returns
wouldn't be downloaded because they don't really make any difference. Then there is the fonts folder and we're
not going to talk about this right now, but it's definitely needed for
basic Bootstrap functionality. And there's the js or JavaScript folder. And Bootstrap does have
a JavaScript component, so you're definitely going to need this. And again, there's two different files,
there's bootstrap.js and there's bootstrap.min.js. Now the min, again,
is the minified version, spaces taken out, certain variables are renamed so they're
not so long, and so on and so forth. Now you can also see here that I've
downloaded a version of jQuery. Now the reason I did that is because
bootstrap.js depends on jQuery. And in order to get this file,
I would go to jQuery.com and let's go back to the front page, jQuery.com,
and I'll click on this Download link. And you'll see that there's two different
jQuery versions, there's 1.x and 2.x. Well, the difference between them is none. There is no difference. The only real difference is that
the 2.x does not support 6, 7, or 8, Internet Explorer 6, 7, or 8. And for now, I think we're just
going to go ahead and use jQuery 1.x. But I think in the future,
as we keep moving along with the course, we will switch to the jQuery 2.x since the
support for Internet Explorer is really kind of dying and Microsoft just recently
announced they're basically not supporting anything in Internet Explorer,
anything below version 11. So it makes sense just to move on from it,
and the user base for those earlier versions
is really, really small at this point. So if you download this right here and
save that file to your js folder, it will end up being jQuery.1.11.3.min.js, and this is obviously
as of this recording. Let's close that up and
take a look at the main HTML page. Well, the beginning of it is nothing
that you haven't seen before already. You've seen this already. And there's the heading tag, or the head
tag I should say, declares to be utf-8. This tag, or this meta tag, you haven't
seen, but this is something that Bootstrap recommends you do, and
basically just tells some versions of Internet Explorer that they should go
ahead and use the latest version, or the latest compatibility version,
of its rendering engine. There's our familiar meta viewport tag, exactly the same as we had it in
some of the previous lectures. And there's the HTML5 shim and Respond.js. And what basically this is is a way for Internet Explorer 8 to support HTML5 and
media queries. Well, hopefully,
this is going to be taken out soon as Internet Explorer 8 will
become less and less relevant. Then we have the title tag and,
finally, we have the two link tags. The first one is the bootstrap.min.css,
that's the actual Bootstrap CSS framework, and the second one is styles.css and
that's really our styles. If we take a look at the CSS styles,
it's an empty file, we haven't really put any of
our custom styles there yet. So, all we're doing right now is relying
on the Bootstrap framework and we put the styles here already just so we have a
placeholder for our styles in the future. Note that we declared our style after
we declared the Bootstrap CSS styles. And the reason that is is because we're
going to be customizing whatever Bootstrap gives us and, therefore, we want to be
overriding what Bootstrap gives us, not having Bootstrap override
what we are trying to style. Finally, we get to the body tag and
at the very end of the body tag, right before we close it,
we declare some JavaScript files or some JavaScript libraries that
we're going to depend on. First of all, Bootstrap JavaScript depends
on jQuery, and that means that we first have to declare jQuery and then we will
declare and reference the bootstrap.js. And last,
we reference our own JavaScript file, which is likely to be using either the
jQuery or the Bootstrap JavaScript files. And again, if you go and
actually take a look at that script.js, it's really just an empty
file at this point. It's just a placeholder for
our future script. Well, let's take a look at what this
HTML file looks like in the browser. Well, it looks just like that. There's absolutely nothing here, and that makes sense since we really
didn't put any content in. Let's go ahead and
put some content in right now. Let's go just start with h1 and
say Hello Coursera! We save that and we go back to our browser
and we see Hello Coursera shows up and clearly something's different
than you would expect before. The font family clearly is
not the default one and the color is a little
bit different as well. So it looks like some Bootstrap
styling is being applied. Well, to verify that, let's go ahead and right-click on it and
go to Inspect Element. And when we inspect element,
let's take a look. Yes, indeed, there's some styles that
are being applied from the bootstrap.css. Another important thing to
take a look at is the console because if you misspell something or
you reference the wrong JavaScript file or something like that, there would've
been some errors showing up right here. And since I don't see any errors,
looks like we're in good shape. So this is the basic and the base
Bootstrap starter page that you could take and start coding your
Bootstrap based web pages. So to summarize, we got introduced to
the most popular project on GitHub, which is Bootstrap. And we got introduced to the concept of
Mobile First, that is, the importance of planning for the mobile version of
your website from the very beginning. And we went over
the Barebones Bootstrap web page. We saw how to download and
install the Bootstrap artifact files as well as jQuery that is needed for
the Bootstrap JavaScript framework. And we tested out that our Bootstrap page
actually works and contains no errors. Next, we're going to talk about one
of the core topics when discussing the Bootstrap CSS framework, and
that is the Bootstrap Grid System.